---
app_name: Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS)
base_max_patch: null
change_pages_merged: false
currency_status: unverifiable
doc_date: null
doc_type: release-notes
fetch_format: ''
forum_patch_stub: false
ingest_date: '2026-03-11'
is_base: false
is_change_pages: false
library_max_patch: null
package_id: CPRS
patch: null
patch_gap: null
section: ''
source_file: or_3_0_617_rn.docx
status: draft
title: or 3 0 617 rn.docx
---

## Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS) OR*3.0*617

## Release Notes

<!-- image -->

February 2026


**Artifact Rationale**

Release Notes describe changes to existing software and new features and functions of a subsequent release of software, which makes them useful as a marketing tool.

For the initial distribution of software, Release Notes are optional. Revisions to a product that involve major changes to technical specifications or end-user functionality require Release Notes. Changes to software or documentation that have a minimal impact do not require Release Notes. The project manager, as the authoritative source and in consultation with the technical writer, determines if a Release Notes document is a required artifact for the project.

Table of Contents

Introduction	1

Purpose	1

Audience	1

This Release	1

Patient Safety Issues	1

Defects	2

Product Documentation	3


### 2 Introduction

The Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS) is part of the Veterans Health

Information Systems and Technology Architecture (VistA) suite of application packages.

CPRS enables you to enter, review, and continuously update information connected with

a patient. With CPRS, you can order lab tests, medications, diets, radiology tests and

procedures, record a patient’s allergies or adverse reactions to medications, request and

track consults, enter progress notes, diagnoses, and treatments for each encounter, and

enter discharge summaries. In addition, CPRS supports clinical decision-making and

enables you to review and analyze patient data.

### 3 Purpose

These release notes cover the changes to CPRS for the OR*3.0*617 release.

### 4 Audience

This document targets users and administrators of the applications modified by OR*3.0*617 and applies to the changes made between this release and any previous release for this software.

### 5 This Release

The following sections provide a summary of the Patient Safety Issues (PSIs) and defect corrections for OR*3.0*617.

#### Patient Safety Issues

- **HITPS-11182** : Anticoagulation Management Tool (AMT) reverting dosing matrix to previous value when updating a patient’s dosing regiment in AMT.

#### Defects

1. **INC31115306 - VISTAOR-36624 - Anticoagulation Management Tool software reverting dosing matrix to previous value.**

**Problem:**

When the user enters outside Lab data (with a previous date) and new Flowsheet data in the same session, the sort order returned to the Graphical User Interface is incorrect, due to the system thinking that flowsheet entry is older based on the outside lab date.

**Resolution:**

Fixed FLOWTT^ORAM1 to use Internal Entry Number to sort instead of [FS DATE] field ("B" index).

1. **INC32051845 - VISTAOR-36623 - Anti-coagulation Management Tool (AMT) needs to be rebuilt with a newer version of broker.**

**Problem:**

After the installation of CPRS v33.106.2 at Heartland East, a problem was identified with the Broker Development Toolkit (BDK). Some users have a Certificate Policy that was unexpected by the BDK patch. This meant users were not allowed to log in to CPRS with their PIV card. The previous version of AMT (OR*3*600) was built with the same broker.

**Resolution:**

Updating to current version of broker, XWB*1.1*74 v3.

1. **INC35910518 - VISTAOR-38601 - "floating point value" Error when adding new warfarin patient to the Anticoagulation Management Tool.**

**Problem:**

When adding a new patient to AMT, getting errors on first entering AMT and when updating the dosing grid. This was caused by a change in the Delphi form creation process, changing the order of some internal events.

**Resolution:**

Added a check for status of AMT startup for new patients.

1. **VISTAOR-38467 - ICR 10060 Violation - direct global read ^VA(200,IEN,0) in ORAM1.**

**Problem:**

While editing routine ORAM1 preexisting ICR violations were found in tags FLOWTT+8 and LOCK+7 there were direct reads when only FileMan calls are allowed.

**Resolution:**

Edited the direct reads and replaced with FileMan calls.

1. **VISTAOR-40798 - ANTICOAG - Clinics sorting bug.**

**Problem:**

If the parameter ORAM CLINIC NAME contains free text that will sort canonically before the total number of clinics, the top sorting clinic will get removed from the list and the Clinic count will show up on the list, if selected and used, this selection will cause errors.

**Resolution:**

Changed the GUI code to delete the count before sorting the data.

### 6 Product Documentation

The following documents apply to this release:

- *Anticoagulation Management Tool Installation/Implementation Guide*

All CPRS documents are available at the VA (Software) Documentation Library (VDL) web site.