---
app_name: Patient Care Encounter (PCE) (PX)
base_max_patch: null
change_pages_merged: false
currency_status: unverifiable
doc_date: null
doc_type: release-notes
fetch_format: ''
forum_patch_stub: false
ingest_date: '2026-03-11'
is_base: false
is_change_pages: false
library_max_patch: null
package_id: PX
patch: null
patch_gap: null
section: ''
source_file: px_1_0_234_rn.docx
status: draft
title: PCE V Health Factors Measurements Repair
---

# PCE V Health Factors Measurements Repair

# Release Notes

<!-- image -->

June 2023


Table of Contents

1.	Introduction	1

2.	Purpose	1

3.	Background	1

4.	Audience	1

5.	This Release	1

5.1.	PX HF MEASUREMENTS REPAIR	1

5.1.1.	HEALTH FACTORS WITH INCOMPLETE MESUREMENT DEFINITION	1

5.1.2.	V HEALTH FACTORS MEASUREMENT REPAIR	2

5.2.	Known Issues	5

6.	Product Documentation	5

## 1 Introduction

The emergency PX*1*234 patch addresses PCE V Health Factors Measurements Repair and introduces the option PX HF MEASUREMENT REPAIR. This option is used to edit/delete corrupted data measurements in V Health Factor entries due to a bug in patch PX*1*211.

## 2 Purpose

Upon installation of emergency patch PX*1*234, an automatic repair of the corrupted data is applied. In the past, the V Health Factors (VHF) COMMENTS field has been used to store measurements. For VHF entries that have a UCUM CODE but no MAGNITUDE the repair tries to extract a number from the COMMENTS field. If the number satisfies the measurement definition criteria for the corresponding health factor, the MAGNITUDE is set, repairing the measurement. If a number cannot be extracted or the number does not meet the criteria, the VHF entry is put on a list of VHF entries that could not be automatically repaired. Entries on this list can be corrected or deleted using the PX HF MEASUREMENT REPAIR option. These Release Notes describe the PX HF MEASUREMENT REPAIR option and how to use it.

## 3 Background

Patch PX*1*211 had a bug, when a health factor (HF) that had a measurement defined was given to a patient, the VHF entry had the UCUM CODE stored even though a measurement was not being recorded. Patch PX*1*217 corrected the bug.

## 4 Audience

The intended audience for this document is the Veterans Health Information Systems and Technology Architecture (VistA) PCE facility administrative, clinical application coordinator, and management mailgroup users.

## 5 This Release

The following sections provide a summary of the new feature and functions added with the PX*1*234 release.

**New Features Added**

The PX HF MEASUREMENT REPAIR option is available with this release.

### PX HF MEASUREMENTS REPAIR

When the PX*1*234 patch is installed, an automatic repair of the corrupted data is applied. Members of the PCE Management Mail Group will receive one and possibly two MailMan messages. Each of these messages will have a different course of action.

#### HEALTH FACTORS WITH INCOMPLETE MESUREMENT DEFINITION

When a message with the subject: HEALTH FACTORS WITH INCOMPLETE MEASUREMENT DEFINITION is received, it means that one or more health factors having an incomplete measurement definition were found during the installation process. The user can add the missing fields using the Health Factor Management menu option.

Sample message:

Subj: HEALTH FACTORS WITH INCOMPLETE MEASUREMENT DEFINITION (#109720)

12/15/22@16:46  18 lines

From: PCE Support   In ‘IN’ basket.   Page 1  *New*

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following health factors have incomplete measurement definitions, they should be completed as soon as possible.

Example 1

MINIMUM VALUE: 32

MAXIMUM VALUE: 123

MAXIMUM DECIMALS: 1

UCUM CODE: Weber

PROMPT CAPTION: Missing

UCUM DISPLAY: Missing

Example 2

MINIMUM VALUE: -12.3

MAXIMUM VALUE: 12.3

MAXIMUM DECIMALS: 1

UCUM CODE: part per million

PROMPT CAPTION: Missing

UCUM DISPLAY: Missing

Enter message action (in IN basket): Ignore//

If there are any HFs with incomplete measurement definitions they should be corrected before starting the manual VHF repair.

#### V HEALTH FACTORS MEASUREMENT REPAIR

When a message with the subject: V HEALTH FACTORS MEASUREMENT REPAIR is received, it means that there are VHF entries that could not be automatically repaired. These items will require human interaction for correction.

**Note** : If there are LCS HEALTH FACTORS listed, the site LCS coordinator should assist with the correction.

The sample message below shows entry 188201 can not be automatically repaired. It is missing the MAGNITUDE entry.

Sample message:

Subj: V HEALTH FACTORS MEASUREMENT REPAIR (#295925)

01/04/23@11:43  26 lines

From: PCE Support   In ‘IN’ basket.   Page 1  *New*

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

V HEALTH FACTORS measurement repair completed at Jan 04, 2023@11:43:10

Measurements were repaired for 3 entries.

There were 2 V HEALTH FACTORS entries that could not be automatically repaired:

Health Factor: VA-HTN SELF-RECORDED SYSTOLIC BLOOD PRESSURE

Minimum Value: 5

Maximum Value: 300

Maximum Decimals: 0

UCUM Code: millimeter of mercury

V Health Factors IEN: 188201

Visit: Jan 04, 2023@7:42

Patient: CPRSONE, PATIENT

MAGNITUDE: Missing; UCUM CODE: millimeter of mercury

Comments: EIGHTY

Enter message action (in IN basket): Ignore//

**To make repairs:**

In VistA use the option PX HF MEASUREMENT REPAIR and follow the below prompts. This option should be assigned to the person who will make the repairs. It starts a repair measurement editor.

**Note:** You will need the VHF IEN listed in the MailMan message.

V HEALTH FACTOR MEASUREMENT REPAIR

Edit the measurement for selected V HEALTH FACTOR entries.
Input the internal entry number, or press ENTER to exit: **188201 &lt;Enter&gt;**

VA-HTN SELF-RECORDED SYSTOLIC BLOOD PRESSURE     CPRSONE,PATIENT     JAN 4,2023@07:42       
NATIONAL

...OK? **Yes//** (Yes)

Health Factor: VA-HTN SELF-RECORDED SYSTOLIC BLOOD PRESSURE
 MINIMUM VALUE: 5
 MAXIMUM VALUE: 300
 MAXIMUM DECIMALS: 0
 UCUM DESCRIPTION: millimeter of mercury
 COMMENTS: EIGHTY
 MAGNITUDE: **80 &lt;Enter&gt;**

UCUM CODE: millimeter of mercury// **&lt;Enter&gt;**

The editor displays the allowed range and units for the measurement. In the above example, a human can interpret “EIGHTY” in the COMMENTS field to be the number 80 and recognize that it is in the inclusive range 5 to 300, so the MAGNITUDE can be set to 80.

As you work through the list, there will be COMMENTS where it is straight forward to determine a magnitude and others where a magnitude cannot be determined. When a magnitude cannot be determined, the UCUM CODE should be deleted.

V HEALTH FACTOR MEASUREMENT REPAIR

Edit the measurement for selected V HEALTH FACTOR entries.
Input the internal entry number, or press ENTER to exit: **188114 &lt;Enter&gt;**

VA-HTN SELF-RECORDED SYSTOLIC BLOOD PRESSURE     CPRSONE,PATIENT     JAN 4,2023@07:42       
NATIONAL

...OK? **Yes//** (Yes)

Health Factor: VA-HTN SELF-RECORDED SYSTOLIC BLOOD PRESSURE
 MINIMUM VALUE: 5
 MAXIMUM VALUE: 300
 MAXIMUM DECIMALS: 0
 UCUM DESCRIPTION: millimeter of mercury
 COMMENTS: Can’t recall

MAGNITUDE: **&lt;Enter&gt;**

UCUM CODE: millimeter of mercury//@ **&lt;Enter&gt;**

When there is a valid measurement, both MAGNITUDE and UCUM CODE must be stored in the VHF entry. If there is no measurement, then neither MAGNITUDE or UCUM CODE should be present. If only one of those two fields is present it can cause Health Summary errors.

Shown below are the two LCS health factors measurement definitions and some actual COMMENTS from a site. Each comment is followed by a suggestion for what to do about setting the magnitude. In the suggestions, CNBD stands for Cannot be Determined, in those cases if the UCUM CODE is present it should be deleted.

LCS PACKS/DAY

MINIMUM VALUE: 0        MAXIMUM VALUE: 10                     MAXIMUM DECIMALS: 2

UCUM CODE: number     PROMPT CAPTION: Packs/day       UCUM DISPLAY: NO DISPLAY

In determining packs/day, it is helpful to know a pack contains 20 cigarettes.

COMMENTS:

3/4   =  0.75

4 CIGARS PER DAY = CNBD, this is for cigarette smoking only.

"3 days to finish pack" = 0.33

"I never smoked a pack in a day" = CNBD

chews all day. = CNBD, this is for smoking cigarettes, not chewing.

unkn  = CNBD

3- 4 cans per week  = CNBD, this is for smoking cigarettes, not chewing.

1 CIGARETTE DAILY  = 1/20 = 0.05

3 cig/day = CNBD, this is for cigarette smoking only.

LCS YEARS SMOKED

MINIMUM VALUE: 0        MAXIMUM VALUE: 80                  MAXIMUM DECIMALS: 1

UCUM CODE: number     PROMPT CAPTION: # of years     UCUM DISPLAY: NO DISPLAY

COMMENTS:

3 cigarettes a day for 60 years = 60

10 cigarettes per day = CNBD

&gt;15 years = 15

pt reports smoking 1 pack daily for over 40 yrs = 40

unsure = CNBD

1/2 pack per day for 30 years = 30

1/2 pk per day or less over 30 years = 30

1 CIGAR EVERY SUNDAY = CNBD

40+ years = 40

### Known Issues

None.

## 6 Product Documentation

Table 2: Documentation

| Title                | Documentation File name                           |
|----------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Installation Guide   | px\_1\_0\_234\_dibr.docx  px\_1\_0\_234\_dibr.pdf |
| Release Notes        | px\_1\_0\_234\_rn.docx  px\_1\_0\_234\_rn.pdf     |
| PCE Technical Manual | pxtm.docx  pxtm.pdf                               |

Documentation can be found on the VistA Documentation Library (VDL) at: [https://www.va.gov/vdl/](https://www.va.gov/vdl/)